WI #647: Adds `Amortization Class` column (#747)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: supporting_content/columns/amortizationclass.md

# Column: Amortization Class

> Objective: We need a simple method to calculate savings that doesn't accidentally double-count commitment discount purchase costs that are also represented in usage rows.

Reviewer: Do you have a proposal? Note this is only in supporting content and will not be part of the spec.

> Objective: We need a simple method to calculate savings that doesn't accidentally double-count commitment discount purchase costs that are also represented in usage rows.

Reviewer 2: If not part of the spec, this doesn't need to be blocking -- approved now.

> Objective: We need a simple method to calculate savings that doesn't accidentally double-count commitment discount purchase costs that are also represented in usage rows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Objective: We need a method to calculate savings that accurately accounts for commitment discount purchase costs without creating duplication in the usage rows.
```

| Provider     | Data set                | Column                                                                                                                                                |
| ------------ | ----------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| AWS          | CUR                     | lineItem/lineItemType                                                                                                                                 |
| Google Cloud | BigQuery Billing Export | ??N/A because no upfront payments??                                                                                                                   |
| Microsoft    | Cost details            | ChargeType indicates purchases and PricingModel indicates commitment discounts. There is no column that identifies when and how amortization applies. |
| OCI          | Cost reports            | ???                                                                                                                                                   |

## Example usage scenarios

> This example demonstrates a commitment discount that gets 50% off list price when the organization has an 20% discount on all usage.

Reviewer 2: I would expect this example to include the new column being proposed.

Reviewer: Good idea!

> | ChargeDescription | ChargePeriodStart |  ListCost | ContractedCost | BilledCost | EffectiveCost |
> | ----------------- | ----------------- | --------: | -------------: | ---------: | ------------: |
> | Reservation       | Jan 1             |   $365.00 |        $365.00 |    $365.00 |         $0.00 |
> | VM usage          | Jan 1             |     $2.00 |          $1.80 |      $0.00 |         $1.00 |
> | VM usage          | Jan 2             |     $2.00 |          $1.80 |      $0.00 |         $1.00 |
> | VM usage          | ...               |       ... |            ... |        ... |           ... |
> | VM usage          | Dec 31            |     $2.00 |          $1.80 |      $0.00 |         $1.00 |
> | Sum of 365 days   | Jan 1-Dec 31      | $1,095.00 |      $1,022.00 |       $365 |          $365 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ChargeDescription | AmortizationClass | ChargePeriodStart |  ListCost | ContractedCost | BilledCost | EffectiveCost |
| ----------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- | --------: | -------------: | ---------: | ------------: |
| Reservation       | Principal        | Jan 1             |   $365.00 |        $365.00 |    $365.00 |         $0.00 |
| VM usage          | Amortized Charge | Jan 1             |     $2.00 |          $1.80 |      $0.00 |         $1.00 |
| VM usage          | Amortized Charge | Jan 2             |     $2.00 |          $1.80 |      $0.00 |         $1.00 |
| VM usage          | Amortized Charge | ...               |       ... |            ... |        ... |           ... |
| VM usage          | Amortized Charge | Dec 31            |     $2.00 |          $1.80 |      $0.00 |         $1.00 |
| Sum of 365 days   | (sum)            | Jan 1-Dec 31      | $1,095.00 |      $1,022.00 |       $365 |          $365 |
```
